What inspired you to start this company?
I always loved cooking. I always loved helping people cook. I’ve been a chef for my entire professional career and fortunate enough to have worked in some incredible kitchens. It’s always been about food. Even examples from my younger days when I would include my phone number and tell people to give me a call for help with a recipe. The revelation was when I was helping my daughter who had just started college. She asked for some cooking tips and I told her to FaceTime me. It was certainly a eureka moment for both of us just thinking what a chef could do with the right kind of information about someone’s culinary interests and skill level. 

Chefter, officially, is launching any day now. How did you bring this idea to life?
Well, if I had to give it a formula, it’s hard to exactly measure the amount of fortune and luck that has played a part of it but meeting Bryan Spencer, one of our co-founders, and of course the connection to Vincent Narbot, co-founder and CTO, is ultimately the series of events that have allowed this to become real.  But from the very beginning, even the very first moments that this idea manifested itself to me, it seemed inevitable, needed and worthy of effort to connect people to food again. As a chef, it’s amazing how many people really have lost their connection to how food is prepared. I can certainly remember being scared to boil water and make a box of macaroni and cheese when I was younger. The journey of how things are made and the affect it has on people when it is served with love is undeniable. Chefter is meant to share that experience with everybody. 

In a society that is so obsessed with food but at the same time appears to be so intimidated by it, how do you plan to set Chefter apart from other food focused apps and sites?
I believe that Chefter’s core functionality is it’s greatest differentiation from other existing food sites and apps. Furthermore, I know that Chefter is collaborative with the zeitgeist of food. Chefter is not about following recipes, it’s about creating your own. But food is about inspiration and Chefter is designed to help motivate that inspiration with the access to culinary acumen. We feel Chefter is an elegant disruption to how people interact with food. Skill is no longer required, just caring and effort to achieve incredible results at home together with friends and family, creating things you’ve never thought would be possible. There’s something wildly unique about connecting with a chef or food expert and them instantly knowing what’s important about how you eat based upon your profile.  

Where do you see Chefter going in the future?
Ultimately, the future is a big, fun scary place and technology is going to surpass any thoughts we could possibly imagine and perhaps even in the short term. But we see Chefter bringing people, actual humans, together offering a unique tour through the entire history of food with a lens that society has really never had before. The ability to explore your own familial or cultural history through food, or even following and reproducing food from its earliest recorded recipes to the latest gastronomical inventions is astounding. I would hope that, in the future, Chefter allows chefs to have an additional opportunity to utilize their skills and passion outside of the restaurant kitchen. I would hope that home cooks would have the ability to look at food differently. With greater understanding about seasonality and locality of food to help mitigate the millions of pounds of wasted food every year. At the end of the day, some say its only food but food has changed the face of society every step of the way and we’re exciting to play a part in that. 
